---
id: global.md
title: Global components
sidebar_label: Global components
slug: /global
---

Component registered in `Global` module can be accessible through the entire application.
Components can also be defined using `customElement.define` function but they do not have access to the plugins registered in the global module.

## Root component

The root component of munster starter app and application generated by munster cli by default is found in `src/Root.js`.
It is registered in the global module and invoked using the `<app-root></app-root>` tag in the `index.html`.

## Register a component

Components can be registered in the global module by passing it to the components array.

Here's an example on how to register a component in the global instance:

```javascript
import { Global } from 'munster-modules';
import SampleComponent from './SampleComponent';

new Global({
    components: [
        SampleComponent
    ]
});
```

In this example, `SampleComponent` is registered on the global module.

## Mount to dom tree

All component without the static property `$selector` defined and has been registered in the global module will have an `app-` prefix on it's tag name.

Here's an example on how to mount the `SampleComponent` registered in the global module found in the sample code above:

```html
<app-sample-component></app-sample-component>
```

## Component prefix

There is also an option to set a custom prefix to registered components in global module.

Here's an example on how to set custom prefix in global module:

```javascript
import { Global } from 'munster-modules';
import Root from './Root';

new Global({
    prefix: 'custom',
    components: [
        Root
    ]
});
```

Now we can display the `Root` component using `<custom-root></custom-root>` tag.

## Use a plugin

Plugins can be registered in the global module by passing the plugin to the `plugins` array.

Here's an example on how to register a plugin:

```javascript
import { Global } from 'munster-modules';
import Store from 'munster-store';

new Global({
    plugins: [
        Store
    ]
});
```

In the example above, we included the `Store` plugin to the global module.